About the project:
I used Python to analyze five years of Denver weather and crime data (2020-2024) to investigate the relationship between daily temperatures and violent crime rates, finding a moderate positive correlation (r=0.3865) that supports the "heat hypothesis" in criminology. My research revealed that violent crimes increase by 69% from the coldest to hottest days, with practical implications for safety and urban planning strategies as our climate changes. I additionally used the data to make two visualizations and an interactive HTML based Highchart that both visualizes and sonifies the data for further engagement and exploration. The interactive perceptualization can be found here: https://w-clary.github.io/LIS-4235/denver-temp-crime-interactiveHigchart-3.3.html

About the course:
LIS 4235 Scripting for Large Databases in the University of Denver Morgridge College of Education's Library and Information Science Graduate Program is a bridge between structured data storage and data analysis. It equips students to learn more from databases in aggregate, building foundational data science skills in the  process. This course introduces students to the basics of data storage and acquisition as part of a multi-step data gathering, processing, analysis, and visualization effort. The logic and structure of relational databases will be reviewed as well as non-relational (NoSQL) alternatives. Techniques and methods for automation and scalable data processing are introduced using the Python programming language, with a focus on the SciPy Stack of data science libraries. Additionally, big data workflows are covered. Skills are integrated and applied by the student through the use of prepared data sources, along with use of APIs and web scraping techniques to acquire data through internet sources.
